Ilana Keegan
ITM3
IT Project Management
Lab 3

Project Charter Definition
A project charter describes the entire project.
It includes who the stakeholders are, the reason for the project and what they want from it once completed and how all this will be carried out.
It is a formal and short document that identifies the risks and the benefits of the project and an overview of the budget.
It is issued by the project initiator. It includes timeframes and milestones for the project and outlines team roles and responsibilities.
It is the document that officially starts a project, it also gives direction for the project.  https://www.simplilearn.com/project-charter-and-its-importance-article  https://www.wrike.com/project-management-guide/faq/what-is-a-project-charter-in-project-management/ https://www.lucidchart.com/blog/how-to-make-a-project-charter


Project Charter for ITM3

Project Title: CIT ITM3.
Project Manager: Johnathan Sherwin.
Project Start Date: 21st September 2020.
Project Sponsor: Cork Institute of Technology.
Project Stakeholders: Students and Lecturers.
Project Purpose: To gain more knowledge in IT Management with different modules such as IT Project Management, Network Security, Data Centre Virtualization, Agile Processes, Cloud Networking and then proceed onto work placement. 
Project Objective: To pass all exams and proceed to year 4.
Deliverables: Student will have gained insight and knowledge into the modules and gained work experience.
Roles and Responsibilities: Students and lecturers must attend lectures and labs. Students must complete assignments and pass all exams. Students must find work placement and attend work placement for at least 15 weeks.
Risk and Issues: Students may not find work placement. Students may not complete assignments and may not pass exams so therefore would not be able to proceed to year 4.
Timeframes and Milestones: Semester 1 starts 21st September and continues for 13 weeks, Semester 2 includes work placement starting in January and can continue for 9 months.
Budget: 23 weeks
